# Time-varying graph representation learning via higher-order skip-gram with negative sampling

Repository where we show how the method presented in [1] can be applied to face-to-face proximity data collected by the SocioPatterns collaboration [2], and to synthetic data generated by an agent-based model [3] (https://github.com/BDI-pathogens/OpenABM-Covid19).

## Repository organization

The `data/` folder contains preprocessed time-varying proximity data and corresponding metadata with class labels (where they are available). The original raw data can be found in http://www.sociopatterns.org/datasets/. Furthermore it contains SIR spreading realizations on each presented dataset.

The `code/` folder contains Jupyter notebooks to execute the method on presented datasets:
1. [MakeVariousSupraNetworks](code/MakeVariousSupraNetworks.ipynb): To build and save networkx supra-adjacency graphs.
2. [MakeVariousSupraSparseTensors](code/MakeVariousSupraSparseTensors.ipynb): To build co-occurrence tensors from supra-adjacency graphs (not needed for synthetic datasets).
3. [RemoveEvents](code/RemoveEvents.ipynb): To remove events from empirical temporal graphs and save results.
4. To embed different higher-order representations and test them in downstream tasks.
   - [hosgns_3Way_Stat_SocioPatterns](code/hosgns_3Way_Stat_SocioPatterns.ipynb)
   - [hosgns_4Way_Dyn_SocioPatterns](code/hosgns_4Way_Dyn_SocioPatterns.ipynb) 
   - [hosgns_4Way_StatDyn_SocioPatterns](code/hosgns_4Way_StatDyn_SocioPatterns.ipynb) 
   - [hosgns_3Way_Stat_OpenABM](code/hosgns_3Way_Stat_OpenABM.ipynb)
   - [hosgns_4Way_Dyn_OpenABM](code/hosgns_4Way_Dyn_OpenABM.ipynb)

## Requirements

The repository required packages can be installed from `requirements.txt`. To run the code on OpenABM (last two notebooks) the libraries [GEM](https://github.com/palash1992/GEM) and [SNAP](https://github.com/snap-stanford/snap) are also needed. The code has been tested under Python 3.6.

## References

[1] Simone Piaggesi and André Panisson (2020). Time-varying Graph Representation Learning via Higher-Order Skip-Gram with Negative Sampling. arXiv preprint [arXiv:2006.14330](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.14330)

[2] Cattuto, C., Van den Broeck, W., Barrat, A., Colizza, V., Pinton, J. F., & Vespignani, A. (2010). Dynamics of person-to-person interactions from distributed RFID sensor networks. PloS one, 5(7), e11596.

[3] Hinch, Robert, et al. "OpenABM-Covid19—An agent-based model for non-pharmaceutical interventions against COVID-19 including contact tracing." PLoS computational biology 17.7 (2021): e1009146.
